---
layout: post
title: Yosemite
tags:
- San Francisco
---

So after yesterday's exploits on the bike, I really didn't feel like
getting up at 6am to go to Yosemite, but I knew that I would be thankful
later!

We left at about 7.30am and arrived at Yosemite at 1.30pm, a long trip.
We parked pretty much right under the falls and stepping out of the a/c
couch, the heat hit like it does getting off the plane in Singapore or
something. It hit 32 degrees there because it is more inland, it
would've got much higher but we were at 5000 feet above sea level! I
can't describe in words how awe inspiring this place is, my photos
definately can't do it justice but [here they
are](https://www.flickr.com/photos/daveharris/sets/72157623731821496). I
took about 200 photos, so these are just a sample.

Nothing can do this place justice. The height of El Capitan is just
astonishing, and people actually climb up there (the shortest time is 4
days!). We stopped and looked at some smaller waterfalls up close on the
way and then a good viewing spot for El Capitan and Bridalveil Falls. We
had 3 hours on our own after we arrived and I spent most of that at the
largest Yosemite Falls. There was a track to the top that took 3 hours
that I wanted to do but didn't have enough time or energy after
yesterday! They have a free shuttle service to take you around the park
and the visitor centre had a good video. I couldn't resist some
professional photography so got a large postcard of the falls.

They are going a lot of work on the road and so we were stuck in traffic
for about an hour or so. Thankfully we had air conditioning. The driver
could tell we weren't getting anywhere fast se he took us up to
Inspiration Point where you can see all the major attractions. He said
that it was probably the most photographed spot in the US if not the
world.

As it happened there was a kiwi couple on the tour also (yes, its a very
small world) so we took each others photos so there are more of me this
time ;)

I got back to the hotel at about 10.30pm so it was a very very long and
hot day. As we crossed the Oakland bridge at about 10pm, it was still 28
degrees!!!!

So it is now Thursday morning and I finally have internet access so I
can post this and the photos. It is meant to reach about 35 degrees here
today. It is very hot already so I am doing to find a tree at
Fisherman's Park and get some reading done and then go on the yacht this
afternoon. I need a break, its been a very busy few days!

Well last full day in SF, and its a hot one! ;)
