---
layout: post
title: Alcatraz
tags:
- San Francisco
---

Well today was Alcatraz day and what a stunning day I had to see it.
From the photos it may look warm and sunny, but that wind is cutting,
especially in the middle of the harbour! I definitely feel at home here,
it is very like Wellington with steep hills, windy and thriving, forward
looking city.

Everything is very expensive here though, well almost everything. It's
expensive even when I forget to convert it to \$NZ. Like a bag of chips
is \$4 and a Ben 'n' Jerry's icecream is \$4. But other things like
Alcatraz were remarkably goof value. It was only \$24 for a 20 min boat
ride each way, a free audio tour (more on that later), a documentary
explaining the history and a guided tour around a certain section if you
were lucky (which I was). Food seems very expensive here I guess, but
the hostel puts of great evening meals for \$5 (tonight was a roast!)
and a free breakfast of the typical American bagel so I can't complain.

Anyway, onto Alcatraz. I caught the boat out after lunch and arrived at
the perfect time, one of the wardens was about to give a guided tour
explaining the 3 major escape attempts ... the best bit!!! He was really
good and had a massive crowd. He showed us some bits that were off
limits without a guide so that was sweet. I have like 200 shots so there
are plenty more than went up on the website. Jeff, I am loving your
camera ;). So he talked about the buildings on the way to the location
of the escape attempts which was god because of its varied history, it's
hard to make out what is from what era. First was the establishment of a
military fort during the 1850's gold rush. Then it became the prison
from 1930-60's and it was then taken over by native American Indians,
who seem to be in a very similar state as our Maori in terms of land
being taken and slowly being granted back. The American Indians occupied
it for over a year before being captured by the Government.

But the prison is the really interesting bit. After explaining how some
escapee's planned to get out we walked up to the top where the main cell
block is. We were issued with little audio players and headphones that
we could control. The thing that got under my skin was the language
options were American, Chinese, Gernan....... American??????? There is
no such language!!! Anyway, these players were really awesome. There was
a narrator telling you what you were looking at and then former inmates
spoke about what life was like. So much better than reading about it,
and you could go your own pace, which meant plenty of stopping and
starting for photos! We were introduced to the cells and then taken
around and told what went on in each section or highlighting events such
as escape attempts etc. One really good bit that I would've totally
missed was speckled marks on the concrete floor. These were caused by
grenades thrown into the prison by the guards during a time when the
prisoners overran the guards inside. The cells are tiny, 5 feet but 8
feet by 7 feet tall. I could touch the walls on either side! Its an
impressive and spooky place, especially hearing about that a murder
happened in the cell you are looking into and the bullet mark can be
seen in the wall! There are night tours you can do, noooo thanks!!! The
solitary confinement cells were even worse. They had nothing in them al
all apart from a grate in the floor for you-know-what, the cells were
even smaller than normal, the windows were left permanently open so the
freezing air from the bay comes straight into the room and you are
locked behind two doors with no light. By law, they had to provide them
light, but they turned them off for more punishment. As the saying goes
"Break the rules and go to jail, break prison rules and go to
Alcatraz"!!!

We then were showed the cells of the escapee's that made dummy heads and
made the inflatable raft out of rain coats. They managed to get the
grate off the wall and dig through the concrete at night **FOR A YEAR**.
They made it into the utility shaft between the cells and up onto the
roof. The alarm was raised in the morning and all that was found was the
raft floating in the bay. Some people think that they made it to South
American (they did learn Spanish while inside) and they got away but the
official Government line was that they drowned and their bodies went out
to sea. Who knows!? Yet another mystery of Alcatraz. Mythbusters did a
show on it, but I can't remember if they said it was possible to do or
not. their plan was ingenious though. The best bit is that they learnt
how to make the raft from a Popular Mechanics magazine that was in the
prison library .... ooooops!

We did a tour of the guards quarters and then I walked around the
outside to get to the playing field. As you can see in the photo, you
can see the Golden Gate clearly from there, I can see why they thought
they could swim across the bay. And it's such a short distance too, only
1.25 miles. But the water is freezing with strong currents. Speaking of
which, the ranger guide who took us around actually swam across to the
mainland last year without a wetsuit and did it in 45 mins. So it was
possible to do it. But he had been training in the freezing water for
weeks before hand!

The whole place is falling apart though. They have the same problem that
we do where the salt water gets into the steel reinforcing and blasts
the concrete apart as it rusts from the inside out. They are spending a
lot of money to get it back in shape, but there is a lot to do with many
layers of history. Whihc one do you restore it to?

So Alcatraz was a blast, exactly what I thought it would be. Spooky but
exciting at the same time. It was packed though (even on a Monday) and
everyone was at the same stage in the audio tour. It meant for some
crushes at times.

I have having a [uploading
photos](https://www.flickr.com/photos/daveharris/sets/72157623731815410)
as the internet seems to be better sometimes than others.

I have booked the Yosemite tour for Wednesday and then biking to
Sausilito on Thursday before flying back Friday night. Tomorrow I am
going to go sailing on the yacht and go on the steepest cablecar line on
California Street. Not sure what I'll do Friday at this stage.

Hope you are all well and don't spend all day reading my too long and
detailled accounts!
